---
layout: post
title:  "Jenkins Secrets"
date:   2020-01-30 10:10:45 -0700
---

## Jenkins Secrets!

<!--break-->

When working with Jenkins we may need to find a secure way to store and retrieve secrets such as 
username and password combinations, tokens, and certificates to authenticate or sign a digital 
file. This post will detail how to retrieve secrets stored as credentials inside Jenkins and use
these secrets within a scripted pipeline.

Luckily with Jenkins we can use a nice plugin called the Credentials Binding plugin!
[Jenkins Plugin Link](https://plugins.jenkins.io/credentials-binding)
With this plugin we may:
* Allow credentials to be bound to environment variables for use from miscellaneous build steps
* Mask secrets from being visible in most logs through stdout

### How to use the Credentials Binding plugin

1: First, we must upload or enter our secret into Jenkins (example using a username password combo)

{% highlight ruby %}

Click on System
Click on Clobal Credentials
Click on Add Credentials
For scope choose global because these credentials are for a pipeline
For kind choose Username and Password
Enter the username and enter the password
Leave the ID blank (if you prefer), Jenkins will autogenerate a unique ID for you!
Enter a description so you know what this password is for later
Click Ok

{% endhighlight %}

2: Bind our previously entered credentials to environmental variables to be used in our
scripted pipeline

{% highlight ruby %}

stage('credentials'){
  withCredentials([usernamePassword(credentialsId: '7b274a40-4533-4d2d-a37f-917d5b785e97', usernameVariable: 'USERNAME', passwordVariable: 'PASSWORD')]) {
    // Now within this block we may use '$USERNAME' and '$PASSWORD' when we need them
    // note: Single quotes prevent Groovy interpolation; expansion is by Bourne Shell, which is what you want	
}

{% endhighlight %}

3: If you were to try and print out $USERNAME or $PASSWORD

{% highlight ruby %}

stage ('echo variables') {
  sh(''echo User: '$USERNAME'' && 'echo Pass: '$PASSWORD''')
}

You will get this as stdout when you view the Jenkins build logs:

echo User: ****
echo Pass: ****

{% endhighlight %}

4: Note that your credentials are still exploitable by a bad actor! Do not share credentials with an untrused pipeline period!
Do not allow unrestricted access to your build agents either!
